From Hanselman it's dot
com. It's Hansel minutes or
weekly discussion with web developer
and technologists. Scott Hanselman hosted
by Carl Franklin. This is Lawrence Ryan
announcing show number 15, recorded
Tuesday, April 25th, 2006. Support for Hanselman
it's just provided by Peter
bloom.com. Start with better controls
finish with better sides online
at P E T E
R B L U M.
Dot com. Support is also
provided by.net developers journal the
world's leading.net developer magazine online
at www dot  dot
com. In this episode, Scott
discusses alternative ways to open
applications and increasing personal productivity.
Hi, this is Carl Franklin and
you're listening to Hanselman it's
I'm here with Scott. It's
going to be a quick
show today, Scott, we're talking
about start run replacements, Start
run. I'm not launching files
fast enough. I'm not launching
my programs fast enough. I
go down to my start
menu and I click all
programs and I've just, I'm
sitting here with Waiting and
I'm waiting and okay. Files
just popped up. I'm running
at about 1400 or 1600
resolution in my start menu
fills my screen. So shorter,
the computer, reading your mind.
What can we do about
this more and more people
have been using the, You
know, the windows shortcuts to
try to make things a
little easier. Of course, Jeff,
Atwood's got the kind of
canonical blog post on using
windows keys. We've talked about
this before on the show@shrinksyour.com
slash E B M. And
you can do things like
window R and that'll pop
up the, the run dialog
box. So when you say
start run, you can also
type window R and you'll
pop that up. And then
you can also remap your
hot keys. If you've someone
like me and you're using
an IBM or a Lenovo
ThinkPad that doesn't have a
window key, you can remap
that. So I type right.
All are, but it's the
same thing at this point,
a lot of people would
rather type out notepad, like
spell out the entire word
or calc, then go hunting
for it. Right. But I
really wish I could get
a faster experience than, than
that. So I've been kind
of collecting applications that would
help you do that faster.
Jeff talks about a few
of them on his blog
post there. Here's what I've
found so far. There's the
original and it's still a
pretty good one. Dave's quick
search task bar, Right? I
remember you talked about this
the very first time I
interviewed you on.net rocks. Yeah,
it has been around for
a very long time. This
is an interesting one. You
can see it at stir.com/e
B N N as in
Nancy. This is a text
box that will sit down
in your windows task bar
and you can type in
a web addresses directly. It
supports a number of hot
keys for like adding www.or.com
to the end of a
string to automatically you type
in CNN, you hit control
enter. And just like you're
used to in the browser,
it'll add the appropriate prefixes
supports a history. You can
drag texts to the search
bar. You can bind different
kinds of magic words to
a particular application. So you
might say that, you know,
a for Amazon G for
Google, it's kind of up
to you. They've had a
little trouble recently with windows
XP service pack two because
Dave search bar is largely
implemented in JavaScript. So service
choose local machine lockdown blocks.
Dave's quick search desk bar
from running on reboots, take
a look at the FAQ
on Dave's site, but they're
working actively on a rewrite
of Dave's search bar. That
will let you run under
service pack two, but they
continue to have trouble. There's
a current beta that's out
right now. It's a pretty
flexible thing. If you're a
person who doesn't want an
application to be right in
your face, you'd like it
to be available all the
time. You're not too big
into hot keys. It's pretty
powerful. You can add specific
websites. And there's lots of
information on the Dave's forums.
A lot of enthusiast around
Dave's search bars that have
set up speed shortcuts. So
you can type in like
Y H and then a
word and check Yahoo, or
you can type in definitely,
you know, define and go
straight to the dictionary. It's
kind of like Code, rush
for your system, huh? Yeah.
Like code rush. It's really
totally up to you. You
can write these extensions in
JavaScript. It can act as
a calculator because it's using
JavaScript for this kind of
evaluation. It'll sit down there.
It'll be a clock. It'll
be a calculator. And it's
always sitting there because it
is a tool bar that
sits in the windows and
the windows task taskforce. Hey
Scott, do you remember at
the beginning of the show,
you said, you know, you
like to use the windows
shortcut keys, but the menus
take so long to come
up. Did you know that
you can change the delay
for the menus? And the,
the default is like 400
milliseconds. I think if you
go into red edit, go
to H key current user
control panel, desktop, scroll down
the right panel and double
click on the menu. Show
delay in the value data
box, change the default value
from 400 to like one
and your menus will fly.
And it takes some getting
used to cause there's no
delay when you hover over
a menu. So you really
have to be a little
more careful with your mouse,
but the cool part about
that is mouse, keyboard, whatever
the menus just fly. Totally.
Yeah. That's something you can
get to from the tweak
UI control panel as well.
If you don't want to
dig around in the registry,
right? Little things like that
can make a big difference
into in your general experience.
You know, it seems silly
to say a couple of
milliseconds will add up. Yeah,
they really do. They really
do so. Dave's quick search
sits down there on the
task bar. But the one
that I use primarily find
myself, keep going back to
is systems slick run. This
is at shrinker.com/ebo, and lots
of people who read my
blog are familiar with this
tool because I've been pimping
it furiously for a number
of years. I like to
run mine with a large
font and I do it
with a black background and
a Kermit green. So it
kind of looks like a
little floating terminal window and
I've bound it to the
window are key. If you
go into the slick run
dot any, there's a option
that's buried deep in the
documentation says grab when R
equals one and you can
bind it to window R.
And this one is a
similar kind of experience as
the Dave's quick bar, you
can add words. I have
it set up for like
word definitions. I can say
define foo. And it'll run
up to the dictionary and
define food. It'll do Google
searches, but it also does
auto completion of paths. So
I can say C colon,
backslash doc, and automatically go
to documents and settings. Excellent.
You can also create macros.
So I have a macro
called morning that will do
all of the different things
I want to do in
the morning. Like launch up
these websites, bring up outlook,
run a backup program, run
fried, you know, defrag, whatever
I want to do. I've
also put together a couple
other ones, like stand by
me. That will turn my
machine on standby mode and
things like that. Yeah. Those
are all called magic words.
And this application is really,
really fast. That's the one
thing I can say about
a slick run. The also
the flexibility that you have,
I run both internet Explorer
and Firefox. Although Firefox is
in my, is my primary
browser. You can define that
some of the slick run
words will use IAE and
some will use Firefox by
calling I Explorer, Firefox yourself
manually. So some of the
things that we use in
our intranet, I prefer to
have them launch. I explore
some of my SharePoint sites.
I want them to automatically
launch. I E I've also
set up commands for loading
monad versus loading the dos
prompt. So I've got a
magic word for MSH versus
foreseen. Right. It's a pretty
good. Do you use any
of these or you just
kind of a click click
kind of guy? No, I,
I haven't used slick run
yet, but you know, that's
because I haven't had a
need to, so yeah, if
you're doing, if you're doing
stuff with dozens of winners,
those open and lots of
different programs that are little
tiny programs that you run
this and then jumped back,
you know, any kind of
big time multitasking, if you
spend most of your time
in one application, whether it
be a sounding application or
whether it be a, a
coding application, you have less
of a need for something
like, yeah, I do plan
to check it out though.
Cause I'm here. I hear
nothing but great stuff about
it. Yeah. I think that
this is really about deciding
whether or not those seconds
matter. Right. You know, I
know that for a lot
of people, the fact that
they can bring up calc
in two milliseconds versus a
half a second is really
silly and it's kind of
the badge of the geek.
Right. But for others, they
really do feel like my
brain is already had the
thought at this point, I'm
just waiting for my fingers.
And I think for the
real geeks out there, I
think that a lot of
geeks haven't to listen to
the show, there's this sense
that we're IO bound, you
know, that I'm really waiting
for the disc drive heads.
And at this point, the
disk drive heads are my
fingers. Is there anything at
all I can get to
speed that up. Now another
tool that is kind of
like a slick slick run
is called launchy launchy.net. This
is at shrinks.com/e B L.
This is actively being worked
on, I've got this bound
to Altspace on my system.
And this is a, an
interesting little application that will
pop up kind of a
transparent window. It's very much
known for its skinning ability.
So people will scan it
to match whatever theme they're
using for those that are
into the whole windows customization
crowd. So it indexes your
start menu and all of
your shortcuts. So if I
hit Altspace and type it,
I see that it automatically
knows I want to run
iTunes because it's automatically scanned
and indexed my, my start
menu. So if all you
want is a, is a
skinnable program, launcher that's wicked
fast. You want to hit
a hot key and type
CA and start running calc
immediately, without having to think
about what those words are
then launch, it would be
an application you might want
to check out. Of course,
with all of these tools,
you really can't go and
say, gosh, this tool does
that. And not this other
thing, because launching applications, we
all know that we want
auto-completion. We want to be
able to go and type
something that's less than what
we would ordinarily type when
we hit start run. So
with launching, it's automatically suggesting.
So if I type C
yay, it says Picasa I
type Cal. It says calc
entering it launches. Now something
like something like slick run
wouldn't know that I meant
calc when I type CA
right. But once I've run
calc once, and then I
launched lik run again, I
type CA it automatically suggests
based on history that, Oh,
you probably meant calc. You
just did that. Right. So
slick run kind of learns
as you do this pretty
slick. It is pretty slick.
Launchy is another application to
check out. So check that
out. Okay. Launchy slick running.
Dave's quick switch, all kind
of similar. I like to
use slick run to have
it follow my cursor. There's
a fallout chase cursor equals
one option. So wherever my
cursor is, is where it
will pop up. And I
like that in the sense
that I don't have to
move my eyes too much.
I don't have to go
back down to a particular
location, right. And I'm launching
a will come up automatically,
wherever it was left. Now
I've bound launching to Altspace.
That happens to be the
default, that launch he likes
to set itself up on
there's another tool written in.net
that people are talking about
called app rock. Good. This
was at shrinks.com/e B P.
So app rocket is similar
to launchy launches a free
application that you can get
up a SourceForge, but app
rocket at shrinks.com/ebp. This is
an application that you buy
it's written in.net, and rather
than floating around your screen
app, rocket docs at the
top of your screen, it's
almost like a, a title
bar. It's like a little
tool bar, but it's very,
very small. And it indexes
not only your programs, but
an index has all of
your files as well. So
I've bound this to control
space. So I've got laundry
to Altspace and I've got
app rocket to control space,
and I can start typing.
Like I just wrote an
application called console application. I
can just start typing console
app. And then I dropped
down, pops down that shows
me all of the applications,
code files of any particular
type that I've set up
that have that in the
name. So it's almost like
Google desktop search, right? But
this is happening in your,
kind of in your title
bar, as you type these
things are coming up. So
I'm typing in MSDN and
I see MSDN newsgroups that
are coming out of my
web history. I see an
application, a CS file I
had called MSDN dot CSS.
And I also see a
web query. So I can
type in MSDN space, hit,
enter, and then type in
the query. So I hit
MSDN enter system at XML
enter and it automatically launches
up my browser. Wow, cool.
You know, the one thing
I should mention is you
gotta be careful with too
many utilities that index your
hard drive because before you
know it, you know, those
things are chewing up a
lot of CPU space, and
a lot of disk access
to then if you've got
the Google tool bar and
you've got MSN search and
maybe rocket, you probably just
want to pick one, right?
You are 100% on, on
target. I've I selected every
single one of these in
order to make sure that
I could kind of review
them completely. But I, right
now I'm slick run all
the time. I use slick
run everyday all the time.
I love slick run. I
don't think launchy is going
to be for me. Cause
I can do everything I
can do with laundry was
slick run by setting up
magic words, I'm liking app
rocket more and more, but
it's only $18 to buy,
which is not too bad.
Slick run is free, quick
Dave's bars, free launches free.
All of them allow you
to do things like, you
know, MSDN space, whatever or
Google space, whatever, and look
things up. I like app
rockets look and feel. It's
very similar to an application
on the Mac called quicksilver@shrimps.com
slash EBR. Although quick silver
is largely considered to be
the greatest hot, key based
app launcher in the history
of the universe. This Quicksilver
is the windows version or
is this Mac only, or
If there was a windows
version of Quicksilver, these guys
would have a license to
print money, right? So there
is, there are, there is
not a hype. No, there's
no hyperbolic. There's nothing that
can be said about how
Quicksilver is automatic once you've
experienced it because Quicksilver doesn't
just take simple magic words
like we're talking about it
takes combinations of nouns and
verbs. So you might say
something like email too, like
you might say like open
this file and email it
to that person. All in
one kind of composite, it's
almost like a graphical. I
was gonna say graphical monad,
but it's it's greatest. Strength
is not the searching. It's
the idea that you can
take tasks and put them
all together. So you might
say there's a file on
my hard drive called Fu
I want to email it
to this guy. So you're
basically doing three actions and
you're linking them up. So
Quicksilver knows how to find
the file. And it knows
you have email and it
knows about the different contacts
on your machine. So it's
the linking together of those
verbs. And a lot of
these applications have the, the
simple notion of one verb.
I might want to open
this file or might want
to print that file. Right.
But they don't link them
together. I see. Now there
is another application that is
a paid application. Cause we're
kind of going up the
up the food chain here
from free applications to applications
that start doing a little
bit more. Okay. This is
called active words. This is
at shrinks.com/ebq. Now the applications
we've talked so talked about
so far have user interfaces.
Active words is interesting in
that. If you don't want
to really see it, you
don't have to, you just
see, see what, see the
user interface. If you don't
want to know that this
thing exists. Oh, I see.
So active words is actually
listening to everything that you
are listening. It's watching every
single thing that you type.
Huh? So if you just
type the word word and
in notepad or just at
the command line or just
in Explorer and the keys,
aren't really going anywhere. They're
not being typed in anywhere.
You can type in word
and hit F eight or
whatever function, key you've bound
to it. And then word
launches. They have a toolbar
that will monitor every single
keystroke that you, that you
type, but you don't have
to see that, you know,
if you don't want to.
Wow. So what's interesting about
that is imagine like auto
suggest like word auto suggest
where I'm sure we're now
you've used word long enough
to type in Karl. It
automatically assumes you're typing Carl Franklin,
right? So you could type
in the word SIG SIG
and hit space and then
have no matter where you
typed it in windows, have
active words automatically put in
your email signature. So it's
kind of a system wide
text-based, you know, keystroke, logger
pool. It's pretty, it's pretty
amazing. And they've got a,
a tablet PC version. So
then you can just do
the exact same thing except
with ink. Wow. So you
type in, you know, NYT
and it launches the New York
times. I love my tablet
PC, by the way, love
it, love it, love it.
Active words might be the
thing that could take that
to the next level. Being
able to type in almost
like, you know, not quite
gestures, but little shortcut words.
So there's a lot of
interesting demos up at the
active words, website it's active
words.com or  dot com
slash EBQ. They've got some
screencasts where they're inside of
word. They type in the
word Excel and then launch
Excel. You know? So it's
this, it's watching everything that
you do, right? Each of
these applications has a, a
Zen to, it has a
style and you just have
to buy into the one
that makes you happy right
now. Interestingly, while I was
in the middle of evaluating
these tools, I noticed that
the Google update or the
little tool that sits in
the corner and tells you
if when any of your
Google applications has been updated
recently notify me that a
new version of Google desktop
was out. So I upgraded
cause I'm an upgrade whore.
I just upgrade anytime any
application tells me there's a
new version and I'm doing
my thing. I haven't thought
about any of the new
features. And I accidentally bumped
control twice. And this weird
translucent white dialogue box pops
up with like a 20
point font that says, Google,
just Google switch, Google quick
search box. I'm going to
sit here right now. I
hit control control, and I
type in Carl and it
says search web Carl. And
then it says Carl Franklin and
mentioned some text files that
I've got. I see an
email here from you. I
see you referenced on Google
groups. This is all popping
down, just like you ordinarily
see with app rocket, but
it's happening right in the
middle of my desktop. It's
popped up as a mode
list dialogue. Wow. I can
still do other things. And
then I can just hit
enter and see all of
those results in my browser.
So I'm seeing Google autocomplete
as a little application. That's
just kind of leapt out
of my desktop. So I
think I'm probably going to
end up with a combination
of slick run and the
Google desktop. I tried windows,
desktop search for awhile. I
like it, but I keep
getting a, my index keeps
getting corrupted. So your point
about having too many of
these on your system is
definitely true right now, Google
app rocket all fight trying
to index my hard drive.
Really, Especially if you're trying
to do any recording or
anything like that, told you
to turn all that off.
When I do a presentation,
I always turn off Google
desktop, and I just use
a slick run because it
doesn't do any indexing at
all. Hey, I don't know
if you're into this, but
if you do any sort
of recording audio recording with
your PC, there's an XP
tuning tips, you know, tuning
XP for audio at shrinks.com/ebt,
which I swear by and
I, anybody who does any
recording for me, I, I
send them to this, to
this page. And that's where
I found the, the, the,
the trick to the menu
show, delay registry setting that
you can turn down. Very
cool. Yep. So, So far
we've talked about the standard
wind keys stuff, and we
saw Jeff Atwood's article. It
shrinks your.com/ebm. We looked at
launchy, which is a shoe,
a freeware application that's you
can get. So we talk
about wind ki. Well, when
you ask a Winky is
kind of a complicated thing.
Winky used to be the
thing that everyone would use
to make up new windows,
key combinations. But if you
go Google and around for,
for wind key, you'll find
that the company that makes
it decided that it's was
too, it was too free.
And as such was causing
too much of a support
burden on them, right? So
they got rid of it.
And if you go to
the wind key site, you'll
find that we don't sell
that. We don't give that.
We don't let you have
it anymore. So there's lots
and lots of mirrors that
you can find of this
application, but it is currently
dead ended. It's stuck at
whatever version was most recently
released, which is very sad.
So, but there's a site
on coding horror. So coding
horror has a celebration of
the windows key with a
list of all of the
different windows keys that you
might want to, to use
the builtin stuff in windows
like window D for desktop.
What I'm talking about is
an application that was called
wind wind key. Yeah, that's
the Winky was a really
great application that lets you
take all the other 26
letters of the language and,
and bind them to whatever.
So you could have windows,
whatever, but of course that's
gone now, so you're going
to have to go hunting
for it. And I think
we actually talked about that
a little bit ago on
a previous episode of Hansel
minutes, we did now in
the interest of productivity, one
of the other things that
I wanted to talk about
is this getting things done.
We've talked about that a
little bit before David, Allen's
getting things done. The idea
of, you know, getting your
inbox down to zero items
and stuff like that. But
there's this crazy application that
I've been using and I've,
I've actually set up as
my home page. This was
called tiddly Wiki. And this
has, this takes a little
bit of time to get
one's head around. This is
a Wiki run entirely in
a single HTML page. It's
not a server side thing.
You go up to tiddly,
wiki.com or shrinker.com/ebs and download
it. It's like a, you
know, a hundred K file
and you run it and
I've got it running on
my desktop. So it's, I
set up my desktop, my,
I set up my homepage
as this particular file and
it's a complete Wiki all
done in, you know, Ajax.
She D HTML with animations.
It works in both browsers
and you can keep your
notes in there. It's almost
like one note done entirely
as a JavaScript application, totally
editable as a Wiki with
all the formatting and the
graphics and the nice stuff.
And the one I'm using
is the GTD or getting
things done, tiddly Wiki plus
that has the philosophy of
getting things done. The idea
of keeping track of all
the different things in your
life and all the different
contexts and all the different
to-dos and keeping them in
one in one Wiki. Wow.
So rather than to do
lists and outlook or textiles,
which is really what I've
been doing for years, everyone
has a text file called
to do dot text on
the right stuff to do
that text. So rather than
doing to do dot text,
I wanted to give this
a try and I use
folder share, you know, to
keep my files synchronized. So
I've got to have we
talked about folder share. I
think we might not sure
we might have, but folders
shared folders share.com has now
been purchased by Microsoft. Of
course they are now a
windows live beta service. And
this is a, a feature
that lets you, it's not
really sharing folders as it
is synchronizing folders seamlessly between
between systems behind firewalls. So
on my desktop, I've created
a file called a folder
rather called shared desktop. And
then I shared it to
myself, securely using the folder
share service. So now if
I put a file called
Karl dot text in my
shared desktop, it'll automatically show
up on my tablet, my
work PC, my home PC
and my Mac. Yeah. So
folder share shrinks or.com/e B
V E boy vital. So
I've been using this to
synchronize my, to do not
text, but then I started
thinking, well, shoot, you know,
I've got this tiddly Wiki,
and it's such a more
rich way of looking at
things. It works anywhere. It
works in any browser. And
it gives me that kind
of dynamic Wiki feel without
the concern of a database
or any kind of files
in the background. It automatically
saves itself. So I started
using it as my homepage
on all of my machines
automatically synchronized using folders share.
Wow. So I've got things
to blog. Got it is
server-based or it's not server-based
so what it does Just
because it's running on your
local machine and it's using
JavaScript, it's storing everything in
a JavaScript array. So it's
not like a site that
you have access to. That's
why you have to share
to central. Exactly. But that's,
what's so brilliant about it.
You can actually use this
for your, for your homepage.
So if you go to
like hanselman.com, not handsome on
a comp slash blog, but
just hands. When I come
my homepage at the, at
the root of my domain
is it is a tiddly
Wiki. Okay. What, you know,
what simpler way it also
has built in uploading where
you can, you can teach
it how to upload itself.
So you could use this
to maintain an application or
a, a personal homepage. Very
cool. But I'm using it
for mostly for, you know,
for organization, for keeping track
of my life. I keep
trying to get into the
whole one note way of
thinking, but it's just, it's
just so darn complicated. I
I'm really finding that a
Wiki is what I needed.
It's it's more free form.
Right. And the fact that
tiddly Wiki ran entirely in
a browser had no service
side, no components to install.
It's just open a file
up. Very cool. Very cool
stuff that alongside all of
different utilities to make life
a little faster is, I
don't know. I'm think I'm
reaching a productivity Nirvana, right?
Is that a show? I
think that is All right,
Scott. Thank you very much
for sharing your, your, your
list of stuff with us
again this week. And as
for you, dear listener, we
will talk to you next
week on handsome minutes.